feat: share IPFS node between browser tabs (#3081)
ipfs/js-ipfs: packages/ipfs-message-port-protocol/README.md

[![Travis CI](https://flat.badgen.net/travis/ipfs/js-ipfs)](https://travis-ci.com/ipfs/js-ipfs)
[![Codecov branch](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ipfs/js-ipfs/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/ipfs/js-ipfs)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ipfs/js-ipfs/status.svg?path=packages/ipfs-message-port-protocol)](https://david-dm.org/ipfs/js-ipfs?path=packages/ipfs-message-port-protocol)
[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/feross/standard)

> This package serves as a repository code shared between the core `ipfs-message-port-client` and the `ipfs-message-port-server`

## Lead Maintainer <!-- omit in toc -->

[Alex Potsides](https://github.com/achingbrain)

## Table of Contentens <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Wire protocol codecs](#wire-protocol-codecs)
  - [Block](#block)
  - [DAGNode](#dagnode)
  - [AsyncIterable](#asynciterable)
  - [Callback][#callback]
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [License](#license)

## Install

```bash
$ npm install --save ipfs-message-port-protocol
```

## Usage

## Wire protocol codecs

> Library provides encode / decode functions for types that are not supported by [structured cloning algorithm][] and therefore need to be encoded before posted over [message channel][] and decoded on the other end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module provides encode / decode functions for types that are not supported by [structured cloning algorithm][] and therefore need to be encoded before being posted over the [message channel][] and decoded on the other end.
```

> All encoders take optional `transfer` array. If provided, encoder will add all `Transferable` fields of the given value so the they could be moved across threads without copying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All encoders take an optional `transfer` array. If provided, the encoder will add all `Transferable` fields of the given value so they can be moved across threads without copying.
```

### `CID`

Codecs for [CID][] implementation in JavaScript.

```js
const { CID, encodeCID, decodeCID } = require('ipfs-message-port-protocol/src/cid')

const cid = new CID('bafybeig6xv5nwphfmvcnektpnojts33jqcuam7bmye2pb54adnrtccjlsu')

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel()

> // Will copy underyling memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Will copy underlying memory
```

port1.postMessage(encodeCID(cid))

// Will transfer underlying memory (cid is corrupt on this thread)
const transfer = []
port1.postMessage(encodeCID(cid, transfer), transfer)

// On the receiver thread
port2.onmessage = ({data}) => {
  const cid = decodeCID(data)
  data instanceof CID // => true
}
```

### Block

Codecs for [IPLD Block][] implementation in JavaScript.

```js
const { Block, encodeBlock, decodeBlock } = require('ipfs-message-port-protocol/src/block')

const data = Buffer.from('hello')
const cid = new CID('QmdfTbBqBPQ7VNxZEYEj14VmRuZBkqFbiwReogJgS1zR1n')
const block = new Block(data, cid)

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel()

> // Will copy underyling memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Will copy underlying memory
```

port1.postMessage(encodeBlock(block))

// Will transfer underlying memory (block & cid will be corrupt on this thread)
const transfer = []
port1.postMessage(encodeBlock(block, transfer), transfer)

// On the receiver thread
port2.onmessage = ({data}) => {
  const block = decodeBlock(data)
  block instanceof Block // true
}
```

### DAGNode

Codec for DAGNodes accepted by `ipfs.dag.put` API.

```js
const { encodeNode, decodeNode } = require('ipfs-message-port-protocol/src/dag')

const cid = CID('QmdfTbBqBPQ7VNxZEYEj14VmRuZBkqFbiwReogJgS1zR1n')
const dagNode = { hi: 'hello', link: cid }

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel()

> // Will copy underyling memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Will copy underlying memory
```

port1.postMessage(encodeNode(dagNode))

// Will transfer underlying memory (`dagNode.link` will be corrupt on this thread)
const transfer = []
port1.postMessage(encodeNode(dagNode, transfer), transfer)

// On the receiver thread
port2.onmessage = ({data}) => {
  const dagNode = decodeNode(data)
  dagNode.link instanceof CID // true
}
```

### AsyncIterable

> Encoder allows producer to encode [async iterables][] such that it can be transferred across threads and decoded by a consumer on the other end and take care of all the IO coordination between two. Unlike other encoders `transfer` argument is mandatory (because value is encoded to a [MessagePort][] that can only be transferred). Additionally encoder / decoder take item encoder / decoder functions to encode each item of the async iterable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This encoder encodes [async iterables][] such that they can be transferred across threads and decoded by a consumer on the other end while taking care of all the IO coordination between two. Unlike other encoders the `transfer` argument is mandatory (because value is encoded to a [MessagePort][] that can only be transferred). Additionally encoder / decoder can take item encoder / decoder functions to encode each item of the async iterable.
```

Reviewer: If encoder/decoder functions are optional, please put them in an options argument.

Author: they aren't optional.

Author: Changed wording to be more clear about that.

```js
const { encodeIterable, decodeIterable } = require('ipfs-message-port-protocol/src/core')

const data = ipfs.cat('/ipfs/QmdfTbBqBPQ7VNxZEYEj14VmRuZBkqFbiwReogJgS1zR1n')

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel()

// Will copy each chunk to the receiver thread
{
  const transfer = []
  port1.postMessage(
    encodeIterable(content, chunk => chunk, transfer),
    transfer
  )
}

> // Will transfer each chunk to the reciever thread (corrupting it on this thread)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Will transfer each chunk to the receiver thread (corrupting it on this thread)
```
